# course-portfolio
The corpus I chose is the large genre of jazz. Recently, I have been experimenting and listening to a lot more jazz music and artists whether old classics or new subgenres of jazz where funk is a large sound. Not many understand how much history is behind jazz music and performance, which is one of the main reasons I decided to choose it as my corpus. There is so much within the word jazz. I definitely will consider my personal Spotify Jazz playlist, but it will also be interesting to compare it to the Spotify-created playlist as well. Jazz can be thought of as a specific instrument, type of song, or some may equate it to one particular artist. It will be interesting to look at what is it that allows a specific song to be considered jazz. I am also excited to compare the different types of jazz as I will have to integrate geography and historical content to do so. There will be a lot to compare in terms of instrument, sound, voice, and even race or ethnicity. I expect a lot of differentiation between the different subgenres as I already acknowledge and hear it while listening to the music as well as looking at my past research. Jazz has been around for a long period of time, so there is much change in sound throughout the decades. Some comparison points that I will definitely bring up will be between musicians of different ethnicities and gender including Herbie Hancock, John Coltrane, Chet Baker, Nina Simone, etc. as that is a great way to display comparison as well as analyze the specific music itself.

# visualizations 
Jazz has a very paramount history. There are many factors that are important to consider when discussing jazz and the voices and sound that come out of it. Geography has a huge role in the history of jazz as well as race, ethnicity, and gender. My corpus will discuss the different sounds produced from prominant jazz musicians both of color and white as well as male versus female. I plan to compare well-known musicians including Herbie Hancock, Frank Sinatra, Nina Simone, and Blossom Dearie. The visualizations published under the name of each musician displays the valence and energy levels of the artists' discographies. By analyzing them all, it gives a clearer vision to develop comparisions between gender and ethnicity all through sound. 
